Ashish AShish      AShish   Bindra        65464354
354 
4554

5
545454

5
45    python              dev

Text Files:
A file functions as a container for data. It is the most basic and important type of file which are used to store textual data. A text file is a file that includes text-based data is also used to store and share textual material and is beneficial for both human and software companies. A text file often uses a straightforward character encoding, such as UTF-8 or ASCII. Text is an ordered collection of alphanumeric characters.
Although most text files are created and saved by users. Text files can be saved in either plain text or rich text formats and also include textual data. Software developers can use text files to store program data.
Some Examples of Text files are Email messages, log files, and word-processing documents.
Some of the common Text file formats:
1 .asc
Programs like Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) which is an encryption program used for secure communication use ASC files which are armored ASCII files. It includes a digitally signed message and can store both plain-text written data and binary data encoded as text.
These files are often used for securely transmitting messages via email and SMS as well as posting online security alerts. These files are substantially larger than the original pre-encoded file size because ASC files include textual representations of binary data.
2 .doc
A word-processing document that is created by Microsoft Word or exported from another word-processing such as Apple Pages or OpenOffice Writer is referred to as a DOC file. Some of the forms that are included in doc file format are Formatted text, pictures, tables, graphs, charts, page formatting, and print settings.
All document forms including essays, resumes, letters, and invitations can be saved in DOC files. There will be an option available to you while creating a document in Word to save it in the DOC file format. The document's contents are then saved as a DOC file that can be closed and reopened by the program for further editing. You can print your edited DOC file or save it as another file type such as a.PDF or.DOT document after editing.
3 .docx
A document that is created by Microsoft Word or exported from another word processing application such as Apple Pages or OpenOffice Writer is referred to as a DOCX file. It has other document features like tables, charts, and images along with formatted text. DOCX files are frequently used for letters, resumes, invitations, newsletters, and other documents in residential, academic, and business environments.
Microsoft Word 2007 was first introduced The Open XML Document format and it is used to store DOCX files. It replaced the .DOC file format as the standard format for documents. DOCX files save data in separate files and folders inside a compressed Zip package whereas DOC files save document data in a single binary file.
4 .rtf
A text document that supports "rich text" font styling is known as an RTF file. Some of the examples are Bold, italicized, and underlined text along with various font sizes and types. Rich text files also allow tab width, document margins, and custom line spacing in addition to other page formatting options. Modern versions of rtf also include images such as.JPG and.PNG files.
5 .msg
Anything created or stored in Microsoft Outlook such as an email message, contact, appointment, or task is known as an MSG file. It comprises all of the item's information including attachments to an email message. MSG files are linked with Outlook although they can also be supported by other applications that use Microsoft's Messaging Applications Programming Interface (MAPI).
6 .pdf
A multi-platform document prepared using Adobe Acrobat or another PDF application is called a PDF file. Documents and publications should be saved in PDF standard format so that these can be easily accessed on multiple platforms. Rather than being developed from the start, PDF files are mostly created from pre-existing documents. Some of the documents are included in PDF format such as when you download a document from the internet or get one via email from a colleague or friend. Text, pictures, forms, written material, outlines, and other document-related data .PDF files also electronically retain fonts and formatting across numerous devices and seem the same on screen as they do when printed on paper.
7 .txt
A file functions as a container for data. A text file is the most basic and important type of file. Text files are used to store textual data. A text file is a file that includes text-based data. This is used to store and share textual material and is beneficial for both human and software systems. TXT documents are used to create straightforward text documents with little to no formatting, making it one of the most compatible and fundamental text file types.
8 .wpd
A WordPerfect document is a text document created by Corel WordPerfect, a Windows word processor that comes with the WordPerfect Office suite and is known as a WPD file. It also includes Formatted text, tables, charts, drawn objects, and images. WordPerfect is used for letters, invites, resumes, newsletters, and other documents in the home, classroom, and business environments. The primary file type for the application is the proprietary Corel WPD format but it can save documents in other formats as well.
9 .wps
WPS files are text documents created by the Microsoft Works Word Processor, the predecessor to Microsoft Word. It is similar to a Word document (.DOC file). Still, macros and some of the more complex formatting present in Word documents are not compatible with WPS files.

